Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 

## Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 

journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/nima 

## The upgrade of the cold neutron three-axis spectrometer IN12 at the ILL 

K. Schmalzl[a][,][n] , W. Schmidt[a] , S. Raymond[b] , H. Feilbach[c] , C. Mounier[d] , B. Vettard[b] , T. Brückel[e] 

> a Jülich Centre for Neutron Science JCNS, Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, Outstation at ILL, BP 156, 38042 Grenoble, France 

> b Université Grenoble Alpes and CEA Grenoble, INAC MEM, 38054 Grenoble, France 

> c Forschungszentrum Jülich, Peter Grünberg Institut PGI 6, D-52425 Jülich, Germany 

> d Institut Laue-Langevin, 71 Avenue des Martyrs, 38042 Grenoble Cedex 9, France 

> e Jülich Centre for Neutron Science JCNS and Peter Grünberg Institut PGI, JARA-FIT, Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, 52425 Jülich, Germany 

a r t i c l e i n f o a b s t r a c t 

**==> picture [521 x 106] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
||||||||||||||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Article|history:|After|nearly|40 years|of|successful|operation|the|cold|three-axis|spectrometer|IN12|at|the|Institut|Laue-|
|Received|21|December|2015|Langevin, Grenoble, France, has been relocated to a new position and the primary spectrometer has been|
|Received|in|revised|form|upgraded.|Latest|modern|optical|components|are|employed.|A|new|guide|in|combination|with|a|virtual|
|9|February|2016|source concept and a double|focusing monochromator guarantee highest flux. With its high unpolarized|
|Accepted|22|February|2016|
|Available|online|2|March|2016|and|polarized|neutron|flux|IN12|allows|for|demanding|experiments.|A|velocity|selector|in|the|guide|
|ensures|a|clean|beam|and|a|very|low|background.|A|gain|in|flux|of|about|an|order|of|magnitude|at|the|
|Keywords:|sample|position|has|been|achieved|compared|to|the|previous|instrument|and|IN12's|wavelength|range|
|Neutron|instrumentation|now|extends|far|into|the|warmish|region.|
|Neutron|scattering|&|2016|Elsevier|B.V.|All|rights|reserved.|
|Triple-axis|spectrometer|
|Ray|tracing|simulation|
|Neutron|optics|

**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


## 1. Introduction 

IN12 is a three-axis spectrometer (TAS) for cold neutrons at the Institut-Laue Langevin in Grenoble, France. It is operated by the Forschungszentrum Jülich in collaboration with the CEA Grenoble as a Collaborative Research Group CRG-B instrument. The beamtime is shared amongst the collaborating partners and users can apply for beamtime via the respective institutes. 

The IN12 spectrometer has proven its value over the years demonstrating a high flux, good resolution and flexible instrument set-ups. IN12 is best suited for elastic or inelastic high resolution investigations of low energy magnetic and lattice excitations mainly in single crystal systems. Also thin films, amorphous materials at the lower Q range, powder samples or even model membranes have been studied in recent time. Typical experiments comprise, e.g., quantum spin systems, frustrated magnets, superconductors, pnictide or heavy fermion systems, but also a trend to energy-related materials is found. Users can choose between different sample environment equipments, e.g., high and low temperatures, high pressure, electric and magnetic field up to 15 T, and 

> n Corresponding author. 

> E-mail address: schmalzl@ill.fr (K. Schmalzl). 

longitudinal or spherical polarization analysis with the Cryopad set-up. 

The recent upgrade of the primary spectrometer relocated IN12 to a new guide with an end position. A state-of-the-art guide layout using the virtual source concept, a new double focusing monochromator and modern optical components are employed. 

The study of dynamics and elementary excitations in condensed matter allows insight into fundamental processes in materials. The TAS with its ability to explore specific regions in momentum (Q) and energy (E) space with high intensity in various types of samples provides essential contributions to material science research. The trend towards smaller samples (Emm[3] ), materials with small neutron scattering cross-sections as well as complex and extreme conditions emphasize the need for a higher neutron flux at the sample position and a larger Q and wavelength range to probe and identify complex behavior in matter. At the same time the known flexibility of a TAS in terms of variable Q and energy resolution, the possibility to use, e.g., polarized neutrons set-ups as well as an excellent signal-to-noise ratio is indispensable for a successful experiment. The move of the spectrometer IN12 to a new position gave the opportunity to upgrade and improve the performance of the instrument leading also to a wider range of use. 

TAS are a vital part of the instrument suite of reactor sources since their design by Brockhouse in the 1950s [1]. Over the years 

http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nima.2016.02.067 0168-9002/& 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved. 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

90 

Fig. 1. The IN12 instrument after the upgrade of the primary spectrometer in its new experimental area: On the left: End of guide shielding with lead tunnel, movable polyethylen shielding of the monochromator castle (blue) as well as the lead exit tunnel (yellow). Helmholtz coils above and below the center of the monochromator guarantee the maintenance of the polarization of the neutrons. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.) 

several improvements lead to an increased flux at the sample position. In the 1970s Riste [2] as well as Nunes and Shirane [3] showed that a vertically bent pyrolitic graphite (PG) monochromator with fixed curvature can increase the flux at the sample position by about a factor of 3.5 without changing the instrumental resolution. Further gain was achieved with horizontally bent analyzers collecting neutrons in a larger solid angle [4]. Later Bührer [5] and Pintschovius [6] found a higher flux per energy interval by increasing the horizontal beam divergence without changing the signal-to-noise ratio and energy resolution. Thereby the previously used parallel beam and collimation was replaced by the virtual source and the flat monochromator by a large double focusing monochromator with variable horizontal and vertical curvatures approaching ideal Rowland focusing with the sample position to monochromator equidistant to the source. The thermal TAS 1T1 at LLB was one of the first instruments to implement this geometry. Also the thermal instruments IN8 and IN20 at the ILL have been upgraded in the last years and are using slits as virtual source in front of a large double focusing monochromator [7,8]. The use of focusing optics with higher reflectivity in front of the sample [9] resulted in a further gain in flux and the possibility to study samples smaller than 1 mm[3] in size. In recent years progress in guide manufacturing lead to supermirror coated guides having high reflectivity and high m-values. A higher m coating is leading to an increase of the divergence of the neutron beam in the guide where the maximum value is given by the critical angle γc ½1 I= 0:1 m J λ ½A . Ballistic or tapered shapes like elliptic or parabolic designs decrease the number of reflections of neutrons and increase the transmission rate as compared to the standard rectangular guide [10,11]. Together with graded supermirror coatings, high m values towards entry and exit points (e.g., [12]), the beam can be focused onto a smaller spot at the sample position. Elliptic guides in combination with a double focusing monochromator [10] can result in improved energy resolution and significant gains in neutron flux [11,13,14] of up to an order of magnitude compared to conventional m¼2 guides. Guide forms 

can be shaped to illuminate the sample in a homogeneous way [15–17]. Programs like modern Monte-Carlo codes allow one to design and simulate the performance of instruments beforehand and increase their output. 

Nowadays several TAS are being upgraded with new guide and optical components. Many sources made end positions for these instruments available. As one of the first cold TAS Panda at FRMII, Garching, proved that the combination of supermirror guide with increased coating, virtual source concept and double focusing monochromator results in a gain in flux and access to shorter wavelengths [18,19]. The thermal TAS Puma [20] at FRMII and Taipan at Opal [21] use similar key components. Presently the formerly cold TAS IN14 at ILL is being upgraded to Thales [22,23] and a new cold TAS at FRMII is being constructed [11,17]. All these instruments have a rather short distance to reactor source resulting in natural broad divergence of the incoming neutron beam. The recently upgraded TAS FLEXX [24,25] at BERII or the new IN12 show a larger distance from the reactor source and the beam characteristics can be shaped more easily with the layout of the neutron guide. 

## 2. Upgrade of the IN12 primary spectrometer 

The previous IN12 spectrometer was situated on a long S- curved guide about 108 m away from the vertical cold source (VCS). Two other instruments, the Quasi-Laue diffractometer LADI and the test instrument T3, were placed after the IN12 monochromator position. The guide had an overall coating of m¼1 where the inpile part, about a 6 m long guide in a distance of 12 m from the VCS, has been renewed in 2006 with a coating of m¼ 2. Neutrons were transported to the sample via a vertical focusing PG monochromator. We employ a PG(002) analyzer or optional a Heusler analyzer for polarized neutron set-up. The incident wavelengths ranged between 2.3 and 6 Å corresponding to 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

91 

1 wavevectors 1:05–2:6 Å and incident energies from 2.3 to 14 meV, see also Table 3. 

Within the framework of the ILL Millennium Program and the upgrade of the H14 guide system IN12 moved to the other (Chartreuse) side of the guide hall ILL7, about 5 m further downstream than before and is situated now roughly 115 m away from the cold source. IN12 is now located at an end position of its own newly installed supermirror guide with an overall m¼2 coating. We upgraded the whole primary spectrometer and use new modern optical components for most efficient use of the delivered neutrons. The old instrument was shutdown in October 2010, the new IN12 is back to successful user operation since end of 2012. 

A new guide system H14 of a length of more than 100 m was designed to host four different instruments. After common guide sections the guide H144 leading to IN12 is split off. Our guide shows an overall ‘S’ curvature. Roughly the first 12 m after the VCS are composed of a 6 m straight part and 6 m with a curvature R¼ 2700 m. It is followed by 21.3 m with R¼ 4000 m and finally about 80 m with R 2000 m. These last 80 m have a crosssection dimensions of 45 xx 105 mm[2] (width height, compared to the old guide dimensions 30 x 120 mm[2] ) with tapering towards the guide end. Fig. 2 shows a sketch of our guide after the split section to other guides with its curvature to the right (R 2000 m) seen with respect to the direction of neutron transport. The outer concave side of the guide is coated with m¼2.4 to compensate for the curvature of the guide and for a better reflection for lower wavelength neutrons. 

On the last 8 m the guide widens vertically from 105 mm to 140 mm to reduce the vertical divergence for a more exact vertical focusing of the monochromator. At the same time, to be able to focus on a smaller spot at the sample position (2 x 3 cm[2] ), we use the virtual source concept. The guide focuses horizontally down from 45 to 20 mm in width. At the focusing guide end the coating of the side walls increases up to m¼3.2. To optimize transport to the sample position, we installed a new double focusing PG monochromator in 1.8 m distance from the guide end composed of 11 xx 11 crystals, with a size of 16 20 cm in total. 

More than 36 m upstream a velocity selector in the guide placed on a movable in/out table ensures a clean beam, preventing higher order reflections from the monochromator and reducing the background at the sample position. Directly behind the velocity selector a vertical guide changing system with a normal guide element and a transmission polarizing cavity guarantees an easyto-use polarization set-up. This new layout for IN12 is optimized for a maximum flux at the sample position giving a low background at the same time. 

In between guide end and monochromator diaphragms are installed as well as optional a collimator and a Mezei-flipper. The neutrons pass a (variable) sample to analyzer distance of about 1.3 m and a analyzer to detector distance of 0.72 m. Our graphite analyzer (12.5 x 12.5 cm[2] ) has a fixed vertical and a variable 

horizontal curvature. We use a single rectangular detector tube (∅5 cm, height 12 cm). 

## 3. Guide design and performance 

## 3.1. Simulations of the guide 

Results for the general layout of the primary spectrometer have been obtained with different simulation tools. Calculations for the basic guide system have been performed with the neutron ray tracing simulation package McStas [26] widely used for instrument simulations. For studies including the whole primary spectrometer the program SIMRES [27] has been used in combinations with own simulation routines [28]. The main attention has been focused on optimizing the flux, the homogeneity of the beam as well as the energy resolution at the sample position. All simulations have been checked for the former IN12. As recent measurements showed the presently provided theoretical vertical cold source description is not accurate enough and the simulated capture flux for the H1 tube is underestimated up to about 30% [29]. 

The design of the new IN12 guide has been conducted under consideration of existing geometrical constraints. About the first 12 m after the VCS were already in place. The new IN12 monochromator position was defined by the position of neighboring guides and instruments. The curvature as well as the guide height 105 mm of the new IN12 guide was given also within these boundary conditions. 

First simulations were performed to study if a more sophisticated guide shape could increase the neutron flux and reduce the number of neutron reflections in the guide. Several different widened guide forms like parabolic or elliptical geometries also in asymmetric form were assumed. In general the ideal guide form with the highest gain factors thereby is a truly elliptic geometry [10,14,15]. In the case of IN12 (asymmetric) elliptic guide forms yield in McStas and Mathematica simulations only a gain of about 15–20% in transmitted neutrons at the monochromator position compared to a conventional parallel guide. Different tapered layouts, like elliptical widening and focusing, different inner convex and outer concave curvature were tested. The existing constraints limit the overall gain factor. Especially the initial parallel inpile part after the VCS prohibits an increase of the solid angle from which neutrons from the source are accepted by the guide. Thus the general layout of the new IN12 guide has been defined as conventional parallel. Only the last 8 m of the guide follow a more sophisticated asymmetric focusing elliptic form for gain in flux. 

Simulation has also been performed for different overall supermirror coatings m¼1,2, and 3 of the new IN12 guide compared to the previous one, see Table 1. With an increase of the coating from m¼1 to m¼ 2 for the old and new IN12 guide a gain of factor 2 in the capture flux can be achieved. However an increase of the coating of the guide from m¼2 to m¼3 resulted only in a smaller gain factor 1.1. 

Due to the curvature of the guide to the right (R =— 2000 m) after the split section the transmission of neutrons with smaller 

## Table 1 

Calculated capture flux (in [10[10] n/cm[2] s]), performed with McStas) at the IN12 monochromator position for the old (w¼ 0.03 m, h¼ 0.12 m) and new (w¼ 0.045 m, h¼0.1 m) IN12 guide. The inpile part was coated with m¼ 2, the guide considered as curved parallel. 

Fig. 2. Schematic layout of the primary spectrometer of the new IN12 in top view. Shown is the guide H144 after the split section to other guides in the H14 guide system. ‘A’, ‘B’, and ‘C’ denote positions where gold foil measurements were taken. Drawing not to scale. 

|Old, m¼1|New, m¼2|New, m¼3|
|---|---|---|
|0.277|0.86|0.94|



K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

92 

wavelengths is lessened. Fig. 3 shows simulations of the m-values of the guide side walls necessary to transport neutrons with their occurring reflection angles through the guide for two exemplary wavelengths. For the asymmetric elliptic last 8 m the increased coating of the side walls is indicated. For the inner convex guide wall a coating of m¼2 is considered as sufficient, the outer concave guide wall is coated with m¼ 2.4 resulting in an increased transmission of lower wavelength neutrons up to 30% for λ o 2 A. Also the divergence profile at the monochromator position for the outer concave side of the guide coated with m¼ 2.4 compared to m¼2 (upper and lower panels in Fig. 4) is more homogeneous. The same figure also compares the focusing end part (last 8 m of the guide) continuously curved, R 2000 m, with the last 8 m straight, R ¼ 1. The focusing last 8 m of the guide has been chosen to continue with a curvature of R 2000 m. 

Fig. 5. Simulation of divergence profiles (in degree) versus horizontal position (in cm) at the monochromator position for λ¼ 1.65 Å, λ¼ 3.14 Å and λ ¼ 5.71 Å, for a curved focusing end part, outer concave side of parallel guide section coated with m¼2.4. 

Simulations showed that the focusing guide end part has to have a minimum length of more than 6 m to achieve a homogeneous divergence versus position profile at the monochromator position. The shape of the converging end part is following a continuously bent horizontal curve. The coating of the guide is non-depolarizing. Fig. 5 confirms for different example wavelengths λ¼ 1.65, 3.14 and 5.71 Å a homogeneous divergence profile at the monochromator position. The monochromator itself with its mosaicity will further smear out the divergence profile and lead to an even more homogeneous beam profile at the sample position. 

A final guide width at the end of the focusing nose of 20 mm was found as best compromise between flux and resolution. An increased coating up to m¼3.2 for the side walls was concluded from simulations. Already other instruments showed that for elliptic guides a graded supermirror coating of m¼1.5 in center and up to m¼ 3.2 at the beam exit leads to considerable flux gains as compared to the original m¼1 guide [12]. 

Fig. 3. Colored regions show simulated occurring reflection angles at the outer concave and inner convex part of the guide walls (upper and lower panels) converted to m-values for λ ¼ 1.65 and 5.71 Å. The horizontal axis shows a guide length of 80 m, i.e., the distance from the split section in the H14 guide system up to the monochromator position, see Fig. 2. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.) 

The vertical guide exit has been optimized also in respect to a double focusing monochromator with an effective vertical height of 16 cm. As the energy resolution is mainly defined by the curvature in the horizontal plane the choice of a vertical widening of the guide end avoids further neutron bounces in this direction and further flux losses. The gain in flux is maximum for a vertical guide exit of 140 mm and a sample of an assumed size of 1 x 1 cm at the sample position. 

The horizontal converging guide end of a length of 8 m creates a focal spot of about a width of 2–3 cm in short distance after the guide end. The tapered guide end section leads to a gain in flux and good energy resolution with reduced background as neutrons which cannot be reflected by the monochromator are already absorbed in the tapered sections. 

## 3.2. Comparison to experimental guide performance 

4202442024 For the previous IN12 and the old guide H142 the replacement of the inpile part with a higher coating from m¼1 to m¼2 lead to -_ a gain in gold foil flux from 0.253 10[10] n/cm[2] s to 0.47 10[10] n/cm[2] s at the old IN12 monochromator position as measured in 2006. The capture flux of the previous instrument could be reproduced with ° McStas simulations and resulted in values up to 25% smaller than the experimental ones in agreement with the underestimation of pay the VCS source data. 

Fig. 4. Simulation of divergence profiles (in degree) versus horizontal position (in cm) for λ ¼1.65 Å at monochromator position. Upper panel: Outer concave side of parallel section of guide coated with m¼ 2.4, for focusing elliptic end part curved, R 2000 m (left) and straight, R ¼ 1 (right). Lower panel: Outer concave side of parallel section of guide coated with m¼ 2.0, for focusing end part with R 2000 m (left) and R ¼ 1 (right). 

Gold foil measurements have been performed at different positions in the new guide to measure the flux of neutrons: at the end of the parallel guide section, denoted with ‘A’ in Fig. 2, which is at the beginning of the 8 m long focusing part, at the guide end (‘B’) as well as at the new monochromator position (‘C’ in Fig 2). The end of the parallel section ‘A’ coincides roughly with the previous IN12 monochromator position. The measurements have been performed at a reactor power of 58.3 MW. No other elements like velocity selector were placed in the beam. Values measured 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

93 

Table 2 

Gold foil measurements and gain factors of the new installed guide at the parallel guide end ‘A’ (former monochromator position) and guide end ‘B’. Right side: Gold foil values at the new (‘C’) and previous monochromator position (‘A’) (in [10[10] n/cm[2] s]). 

|Year|‘A’|Gain|‘B’|Monoch.|position|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|2011–2012|1.66||2.59|0.53||
|2006|0.47|3.5||0.47||
|1985|0.71|2.3||||



there can be compared with measurements done at the old IN12 primary spectrometer and are checked against simulations of the capture flux at the corresponding positions in the guide. The capture flux is defined as Φc ¼[R] 0[ 0][:][5][eV] ddΦλ λ2200 m=λs ¼^ 1:8 Å[d][λ][.] 

As expected the simulations underestimate the experimental values, see Table 2. At the guide end ‘B’ McStas results to a flux of 1.77, SIMRES to 2.0 10[10] n/cm[2] s. At the new monochromator position McStas results to 0.32, SIMRES to 0.35 10[10] n/cm[2] s. 

A comparison of gold foil measurements of the old IN12 performed in the years 1985 directly after the installation of the old IN12 guide and later in 2006 after the replacement of the inpile part with gold foil measurements of the new guide in 2011 are shown in Table 2. The decrease of the value over the 20 years after the installation of the guide might hint to degradation and possible misalignment of the old IN12 m¼1 guide during time. The new guide shows a gain factor in flux at the parallel guide end of about 2.3 compared to the value measured in 1985 and a factor of 3.5 compared to the value measured in 2006. 

At the monochromator position we have a similar gold foil flux measured per cm[2] for old and new instrument. But as the (illuminated) surface of the new monochromator is about three times the one of the old monochromator a gain in gold foil flux at the monochromator position of 3.4 can be assumed. For the old IN12 the beam was not focused when passing the previous IN12 monochromator and not all neutrons that hit the monochromator hit also the sample. Now with the double focusing monochromator we can focus the beam better onto the sample size and with this the flux at the sample position will increase significantly. 

To compare with the theoretical flux profiles a scintillation camera has been employed to take images of the neutron beam at the monochromator position with the velocity selector placed in the beam, see Fig. 6. The pictures show the evolution of the incoming flux for increasing wavelengths for the whole allowed 1 working range of our velocity selector, i.e., ki ¼ 1:01–2:85 . The cut-off of intensity in the upper part is an artifact. The pictures prove the good homogeneity of our beam for different wavelengths. 

## 4. Optical components in the guide 

## 4.1. Velocity selector 

More than 36 m upstream of the guide end a velocity selector prevents higher order reflections from the monochromator and reduces the background at the sample position as only a selected wavelength band passes through the guide afterwards, see Fig. 2. The selector (purchased from Astrium GmbH, Germany) is – designed for a wavelength range 2.23 6.3 Å without any forbidden speeds in the given working range transmitting the whole available horizontal and vertical beam divergence. For smaller wavelengths higher order reflection will become negligible, see Fig. 16, and the selector, sitting on a movable table, can be moved out of the incident beam. 

With 60 blades and a selector screw angle of 23.9° the neutron transmission amounts for a wavelength of 4 Å to about 83%, see Fig. 7, with a resolution dλ=λ of about 25%. The blades are coated with[10] Boron neutron absorber material nominally reducing the transmission of false neutrons to o 10 7 for λ 4 2:5 A. In our experiments we could show so far that the suppression of false neutrons better than 10 4. 

Due to the coarse resolution, intensity passes the selector also for wavelengths smaller than the minimum wavelength of 2.23 Å with intensity reduced to about half for λ¼1.9 Å (ki¼3.3 Å 1) as can be seen in the flux curves Fig. 14. Whereas at the former IN12 instrument a Be filter was employed at the secondary spectrometer to suppress higher order scattering with a cut-off for wavelengths λ 4 4 A. 

## 4.2. Polarized neutrons 

Directly behind the velocity selector and about 35 m away from the guide end we have a vertical guide changing system with three positions available. Two of them are filled with a normal guide element and a transmission polarizer (cavity), respectively, for an efficient way to polarize the incoming neutron beam. The placement far upstream in the guide results from space restrictions and avoids potential parasitic scattering from the polarizer close to the experimental area. 

The cavity transmission polarizer was found as the best solution for provided angular divergence in the guide in combination with the focusing optics and the double focusing monochromator. The polarizing cavity has been purchased from Swiss Neutronics, the guide changing system was fabricated by ILL. The basic principle of a polarizing cavity is described, e.g., in Refs. [30,31]. Silicon wafers with a thickness of 0.3 mm are coated on both sides with Fe/Si and are mounted with a tilt angle of 0.3° against the incoming beam inside a neutron guide with our standard dimensions 105 x 45 mm. This tilt angle of the plates resulted out of the wish of a cavity working down to a wavelength of 2 Å. The coating 

Fig. 6. Images of the incoming neutron beam profile at the new IN12 monochromator position with velocity selector in place for λ¼ 2.2, 3.0, 3.8, 4.6, 5.4, and 6.2 Å (cm-units in horizontal and vertical directions). The dark triangles on the right sides of the pictures are cadmium arrows glued on the imaging plate for orientation. 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

94 

length 2.5 m. Both channels are separated by an absorbing supermirror dividing wall of m¼ 1.8 with a thickness of 0.3 mm. 

Guide fields made out of columns of NdFeB magnets (diameter 15 mm) create a vertical magnetic field of at least 30 G throughout the whole neutron guide beamline and guarantee the maintenance of the polarization. At the monochromator position the guide field is realized with Helmholtz coils around the monochromator shielding. A vertically focusing Heusler(111) analyzer is employed for the polarization analysis. 

A detailed analysis of the simulations performed for this cavity as well as considerations of multiple reflections like interactions between polarizing plates and guide mirrors, multiple reflections between different walls on same plate will be shown elsewhere [32]. 

Fig. 7. Transmission of the IN12 velocity selector (blue circles) from higher order measurements as described in Section 6. The linear fit (formula in insert) shows an average transmission of E82–84%. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.) 

of the guide element side walls with m¼1.8 appears to be the best compromise for high polarization and sufficient transmission due to damping of higher angles in the input spectrum. The single plates have been tested on giving correct polarization and reflectivity before assembling the cavity. Other than the normal guide element the polarizing guide element has no curvature. A magnetic housing around the neutron guide with NdFeB magnets on the sides creates a vertical magnetic field of strength 450 G, see Fig. 8. 

With the plates showing reflectivity curves different for spin up and spin down neutrons, neutrons with spin up (mup¼ 3.8, R 4 79%) are reflected and absorbed in the glass wall of the guide. The other spin direction (spin down) is transmitted (mdown¼0.7). The polarizer is designed for the wavelength range 2–6 Å. 

To reduce the total length of the polarizing element the form of a double V shaped arrangement of the supermirror plates has been chosen. In this way the cavity fits in a standard guide element of 

Helmholtz-coils were employed at the sample table and Mezeispin-flipper before and after the sample position to test the efficiency of the new polarizing cavity. With two different samples, a magnetic Heusler sample and a graphite crystal with no magnetic or spin incoherent contribution, the efficiency of the spin flippers and the polarization of the incoming beam can be determined independently from the performance of our Heusler analyzer as, e.g., described in Ref. [33]. Measuring intensities with four different flipper configurations (i.e., ‘on–on’, ‘off–off’, ‘on–off’, and ‘off– on’) allows one to calculate next to the overall polarization the flipper efficiencies and then to separate the polarization of the incoming neutron beam and the outgoing polarization after the sample. 

The measured flipper efficiencies for the two flippers installed directly before and after the sample result, e.g., for a ki¼1.5 Å 1 to 99.6% and 99.1% respectively. In the meantime we have also installed a flipper in between the guide-end and monochromator shielding far away from the sample position for allowing polarization set-ups also in magnetic field experiments. The efficiency of this flipper results to more than 99.6%. Assuming that all guiding fields are correctly mounted, the resulting polarization is mainly determined by the polarization of the incident beam up to the sample position, i.e., the polarizer, and the performance of the polarization analysis, i.e., Heusler analyzer after the sample. The flipping ratio, defined as non-spinflip intensity versus spinflip intensity, R¼Inon-spinflip/Ispinflip, measured with the graphite sample gives the total polarization P ¼ ðR 1ÞÞ=ðR þ 1Þ. 

Figs. 9 and 10 show the experimentally determined incoming and final polarization at the sample as well as the transmission of the polarizer in dependence of the accessible wavevector range. 

The flipping ratio measured at the sample results to values 20– 24 depending on wavelength and more than 27 depending on the size of the beam. The outgoing polarization results to more than 97%. The incoming polarization is ideally mainly representing the performance of the polarizer and results to a constant high value of 90–95% polarization at the sample position. The sharp dips in the final polarization (light green curve in Fig. 9) are due to the Renninger effect in the Heusler single crystals depolarizing the neutron beam at specific wavelengths. These wavelengths can be avoided in experiments by choosing specific wavevectors for kf. The slight deviation from the simulation where a polarization of about 96% and more should be achievable might stem from a simplified model for the polarizer system and more than 30 m flight path up to the sample position. 

Fig. 8. The polarizing upper guide element in its vacuum housing (unsealed). Shown is the rectangular neutron guide, the magnets for the guide field and the vertical polarizing plates. Lower part: Standard guide element which can be moved in and out the incident beam guide line with the guide changer. Inset: sketch of the double V shaped cavity in top view. 

The polarizer transmits about 30–37% of the unpolarized neutrons which is slightly below the simulated values. The simulation includes a model for absorption of the silicon wafers (whereas the absorption of the multilayer is not considered) thus deviating from the maximum possible 50% transmission [32]. The formerly used bender after the monochromator in polarized neutron set-ups had a narrow beamsize and showed a transmission of neutrons of less than 25% in a rather small wavelength band. The new IN12 offers 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

95 

elastobore is glued on the inner walls of the lead to absorb neutron radiation stemming from the monochromator mechanics. Thirteen mobile lead blocks, about 12° angular width each can be moved up and down using compressed air. The incoming beam can pass in this way through an opening when turning the shielding. The outgoing beam passes a fixed exit-tunnel made out of lead for gamma radiation reduction towards the sample table. It rotates together with the PE curtain and sample axis when moving the spectrometer. A lead shutter is installed at the beam exit window, a neutron shutter can be found 8 m upstream of the guide end. Helmholtz coils around the monochromator shielding (inner diameter: 1620 mm) assure the maintenance of the polarization of neutrons. In the lead exit-tunnel a Soller collimator can be placed. A monochromator with a size of 16 cm x 20 cm (height x width) has been installed to map the virtual source formed by the focusing guide end on to the sample position with a spot of about 2 x 3 cm[2] under the given geometrical constraints. 11 x 11 pyrolitic graphite PG002 monochromator crystals have been considered as sufficient for the monochromator layout, shown in Fig. 11. The pyrolitic graphite crystals have a mosaicity of 0.4° and a thickness of 2 mm70.1 mm. All crystals are glued on 2.3 mm thick absorbing B4C plates which themselves are glued on 3 mm Al supports that are screwed on the focusing mechanics. The central crystal plate is fixed. The horizontal and vertical focusing can be adjusted continuously with wavelength for optimum energy resolution and are independently from each other. The radius of the horizontal curvature ranges from about 1.7 m to infinity(¼ flat) and for the vertical curvature of about 0.5 m to infinity(¼ flat). 

Fig. 9. Wavevector dependent polarization of incoming neutrons at sample table (black curve) and outgoing polarization at the Heusler analyzer (green dashed line). The dashed red line is a simulation [28] of the polarization of the cavity. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.) 

The monochromator mechanics has been purchased from ILL,[[~]] France, the crystals from Panasonic Corporation, Japan. The F monochromator is mounted on a rotation table, a goniometer and i NN a translation table. The monochromator tables allow for a support HK ; of a second monochromator in future facing opposite to the Ty: x NyN 7 E IN existing one. The thickness of the monochromator shielding is t Py designed to host also a monochromator with, e.g., Si crystals. The f monochromator take-off angle amounts to _ 10 to _ 70° (clockwise with respect to incoming beam). 

**==> picture [476 x 7] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
g [[~]] the from Panasonic<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


Fig. 12 displays some example rocking curves for selected wavevectors showing perfect Gaussian shapes and proving the 

Fig. 10. Wavevector dependent transmission. The dashed line is a simulation [28]. 

now a very high flux at the sample position also for polarized neutron experiments in a large wavelength range 2–6 Å. With a new tall horizontally focusing Heusler analyzer we gain another factor 2 in polarized flux. The guide changing system presents a fast and easy polarization set up without realignment of the primary spectrometer 

## 5. Monochromator 

In combination with the new focusing guide we installed a new double focusing PG(002) monochromator to guarantee an optimized transport of neutrons to the sample position. As the focal point is situated directly after the guide end the center of the monochromator is placed 1.8 m after the end of guide. For ideal Rowland focusing the sample position has the same distance 1.8 m from the monochromator. 

A new monochromator shielding with an inner diameter 800 mm is composed by 25 cm lead and surrounded by 10 cm borated polyethylen (PE) curtain outside, see Fig. 1. The shielding has been constructed by Forschungszentrum Jülich, Germany. B4C 

Fig. 11. The new double focusing monochromator with its 11 x 11 PG crystals mounted on a motorized mechanics for horizontal and vertical focusing. The mechanics is covered on the outside by B4C elastobore for radioprotection reasons. 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

96 

Fig. 12. Example Rocking scans of the PG(002) monochromator angle A1 for ki¼1.05, 1.65, 2.25, and 2.85 Å _ 1 as measured in double focusing geometry without any collimation. 

good quality of the monochromator crystals and the uniformity of the neutron beam. 

Fig. 13. Q-energy range of the old IN12 (in dark blue) and the new IN12 (in light green). (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.) 

## 6. Results for the upgraded IN12 spectrometer 

Table 3 shows a comparison of the parameter range of the previous and the upgraded IN12 instrument. The new guide with its overall m¼2 coating leads to more divergence in the guide and n a lower critical wavelength λ ¼ 1:6 A implying more intensity at higher wavevectors ki. Whereas for the previous guide with m¼ 1 n coating and λ ¼ 2:77 A, intensity was transported to a lesser 1 extent for λ o 3 A and ki 4 2:1 . 

_ 

At the new IN12 we are able to access incident wavelengths of ! i less than 1.26 up to 6.3 Å corresponding to wavevectors ki of 1 to nearly 5 Å 7 1 and incident energies of about 2–42 meV. The new 2 **i** spectrometer reaches now also the thermal region of the wavelength range where with the previous IN12 we were limited to 1.5 2 2.5 wavelengths λ 4 2:3 Å. We also doubled the accessible Q range, see Fig. 13. 

The horizontal divergence at the sample position results to about 2–3° corresponding to a resolution in reciprocal space of about Δq ¼0.05 Å 1 for ki¼1.5 Å 1. 

We performed measurements with a calibrated monitor at the sample position to compare the flux at the previous and the new IN12. The calibrated monitor had an active area of 1 cm[2] and was mounted at the center of the sample table. For the new IN12 the monochromator can be set as double focusing. At the old IN12 only a vertically focusing monochromator existed and 60 min. collimation after the monochromator was permanently in place for background reduction only. The results are shown in Fig. 14. We achieve with the upgraded IN12 a gain in flux of about a factor of 10 for typical wavevectors of ki¼2 Å 1 ðλ 3:14 AÞ and an extension of the accessible wavelength range far into the warmish region compared to the former instrument. 

Table 3 

Comparison of parameter range of the old and upgraded IN12 for incident wavelength, wavevectors, energies, Q range and energy resolution. 

|Parameters||Old IN12|New IN12|
|---|---|---|---|
|Wavelength λi (Å)||2:3oλio6:3|1:26oλio6:3|
|Wavevectors ki (Å|1)|1:05okio2:6|1:0okio5:0|
|Energies Ei (meV)<br>Max Q (Å<br>1)<br>Energy resolution|(meV)|2:3oEio14<br>3<br>0.02–0.2|2:1oEio42<br>6<br>0.02–1.5|



Fig. 14. Flux measurements with a calibrated monitor at the sample position for new IN12 (red curve) and former IN12 (blue curve), not corrected for higher order contributions. Orange curve: New IN12 with velocity selector in the beam and green curve: additional 60 min. collimation using only vertical focusing. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure caption, the reader is referred to the web version of this paper.) 

Measurements with the new IN12 using the old IN12 monochromator which is about three times smaller in size than the new one and the calibrated monitor in place at the sample position shows the same wavelength extension into the warmish region but barely any intensity gain in flux. The latter one is coming from the adapted combination of the new guide and the new double focusing monochromator. On the other hand for the green curve in Fig. 14 a 60 min. collimation after the new monochromator has been used to compare to the former IN12. The gain in flux for new compared to old IN12 flux (green and blue curve) can be attributed mainly to the new guide leading to IN12, see also Table 2. 

The pronounced dips in Fig. 14 in the lower ki-region of the incident flux curve correspond to Bragg edges from aluminum windows in the upstream evacuated neutron guide-line (a change in transmission due to Bragg diffraction of neutrons), e.g., ki¼1.34 and ki¼1.55 Å 1 corresponds to the aluminum (111) and (200) Bragg reflections. At higher wavevector also other effects can play a role like a change in transmission or reflection of the graphite monochromator crystals. The gain in flux is minor for larger wavelengths (smaller wavevectors) as there neutrons experience 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

97 

more reflections in the guide and a higher divergence leads to less exact focusing. 

To reach higher angular and energy resolution Soller collimators can be employed directly after the monochromator and after the sample as well as in between analyzer and detector. The monochromator will still be focused vertically to gain in intensity, the momentum and energy resolution are mainly determined by the horizontal beam divergence. In this way a variable collimation setup and high Q and energy resolution can be achieved. For maximum flux at the sample position no collimator will be employed after the monochromator and the monochromator can be set as fully double focusing. An overview of the achieved vanadium energy resolution, measured with a standard vanadium cylinder and different set-ups, is shown in Fig. 15. For higher incident wavevectors we have an energy resolution of about 1 meV up to more than 1.5 meV typical for more thermal energies. Whereas for small wavevectors we achieve 0.04–0.05 meV (FWHM) or less with tighter collimation. In fully focused mode an energy resolution comparable to a collimated set-up is obtained. 

Fig. 16 shows the higher orders of the incident beam with no velocity selector in the beam. The measurements have been performed with the TOFFEE set-up (Time-Of-Flight-For-Every- 

Fig. 15. Vanadium energy resolution (FWHM) for the wavevector range accessible with the velocity selector in the beam, measured with a standard vanadium cylinder ð∅ ¼ 11 mmÞ at the sample position. Lines are a guide to the eye. 

Fig. 16. Higher orders of the incident beam without velocity selector normalized to the first order measured with the TOFFEE set-up placed at sample position. 

Experiment) available at the ILL. A small optical chopper disc with two slits has been mounted at the IN12 sample table in a distance of 2 m from the detector and has been run with a speed of 215 Hz. Up to 4th order reflections can be detected for small ki. From the spectra measured with and without velocity selector in the primary beam a transmission of the selector of about 83% has been calculated from the peak amplitude in dependence of ki (see Fig. 7). 

Fig. 1 shows the instrument and its new experimental area which holds a radius of 5 m as seen from the center of the monochromator. With the large range of scattering angles, e.g., 7120°, and the vast space also long instrument configurations are now easily realized. Some extra space on the high energy transfer side guarantees enough space for the analyzer tower in ‘W’-configuration. Due to the velocity selector and the distance from the reactor core IN12 provides a low signal to background ratio, as before. We reuse the previous IN12 secondary spectrometer. The instrument is controlled via the instrument control software Nomad available at the ILL. A Mad3d-option allows to also reach positions outside the scattering plane with help of the goniometers at the sample table. 

To compare the old with the new IN12 instrument we performed scans with the same sample and same experimental conditions on the former and the upgraded IN12. The intermetallic compound YbCo2Si2 orders below T ¼1.7 K in an incommensurate structure and below T ¼0.9 K in a commensurate phase [34]. The sample has been mounted in the scattering plane [110]–[001] and was composed of an array of about 20 co-aligned single crystals glued on a plate adding up to approx. 60 mg sample. Below 0.9 K the propagation vector τ¼(0.25,0.25,1) develops. Fig. 17 shows energy scans performed in the commensurate phase at T ¼380 mK for fixed final wavevector kf¼1.3 Å 1 at Q¼ (0,0,1). The incoming beam has a different primary beam _ configuration for the two scans: the new IN12 with its new guide offers a double focusing monochromator whereas before at the former IN12 a horizontally flat monochromator and 60 min. collimation was employed before the sample. 

With the fit of the scans and background treated in the same way the elastic resolution is the alike 140 μeV (FWHM) for the old IN12 and 135 μeV (FWHM) for the new IN12. Whereas in the inelastic integrated peak intensity we have a gain of a factor 9–11, also due the coarser Q resolution and to the possible acceptance of the sample of higher divergence. Note, the background of the spectra are equal for new and old IN12 spectrometer for the respective counting times. 

Fig. 17. Old versus new IN12: measurement of the same sample shows a gain for the integrated inelastic peak intensity by a factor of 9–11. Spectra show the same background and are shifted in intensity by about 100 counts. (Sample courtesy of O. Stockert, MPI-CPfS, Dresden, Germany.) 

K. Schmalzl et al. / Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research A 819 (2016) 89–98 

98 

Also this scan covers only a small region of the offered wavelength range, the example demonstrates well the increased flux and the excellent energy resolution of the new IN12 spectrometer with a simultaneously same background as the previous instrument, giving an excellent signal-to-noise ratio. 

## 7. Conclusion 

The cold TAS IN12 has been moved to a new position and its whole primary spectrometer has been redesigned and upgraded. IN12 is implemented now at an end position of a new supermirror guide with adapted coating. The last 8 m of the guide are used to widen the beam vertically to match the mosaicity of the new large double focusing graphite monochromator. Horizontally the guide focuses down with an increased coating and we use the virtual source concept. A tapered guide end section is found to be of advantage also when composed of conventional straight guide elements. A velocity selector in the guide ensures a clean beam, preventing higher order reflections from the monochromator and reducing the background at the sample position. Directly behind the velocity selector a guide changer with a normal guide element and a polarizing cavity guarantees an easy-to-use polarization setup. A gain in flux of about an order of magnitude at the sample position has been achieved compared to the previous instrument and IN12's wavelength range now extends far into the warmish region bridging the cold and thermal range of wavelengths. We realize a great flexibility in choosing incident wavelengths and the signal-to-noise ratio has improved significantly with the upgrade. Together with the excellent tunable resolution the high flux also for a polarized set-up allows for future demanding experiments. The removable selector and the large accessible space behind the monochromator shielding guarantees a very competitive approach for using high ki values (i.e., ki¼ 3.5� 5 Å[�][1] ). The instrument therefore can be easily used in the standard W-configuration where high energy transfers up to 10–25 meV may be realizable making IN12 a best suited TAS for the warmish region. The higher energy transfers and the larger accessible Q range open up new possibilities not available with the previous instrument. 

In the near future the secondary spectrometer of IN12 will be upgraded with a multi-analyzer multi-detector option, IN12-UFO [35,36] with 15 individual analyzers and a 2d position sensitive detector to program simultaneous scans in Q–ω space. 

## Acknowledgments 

We would like to acknowledge colleagues, engineers and technicians from the Institut Laue-Langevin, Grenoble, France, especially I. Sutton (now ESS, Lund, Sweden), B. Jarry, G. Pastrello, B. Giroud, R. Gandelli, C. Monon, J. Locatelli, as well as from the Forschungszentrum Jülich, Germany, in particular P. Harbott, K. Bussmann, F. Suxdorf, M. Wagener, for their valuable contribution to the design and construction of the new IN12 spectrometer. Thanks also go to our colleagues from the CEA Grenoble, France, 

especially F. Mantegazza and B. Longuet. We greatly benefited from all their help. The guide was supplied by S-DH, Germany, and installed by ILL. The polarization option was funded by the German Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF, project 05K10PA3) in cooperation with the group of Prof. Dr. G. Roth at the University RWTH Aachen, Germany. We thank O. Stockert and his group, MPI-CPfS Dresden, Germany, for kindly loaning us his sample for first comparative tests. 

## References 

- [1] B.N. Brockhouse, Rev. Mod. Phys. 67 (1995) 735. 

- [2] T. Riste, Nucl. Instr. Methods 86 (1970) 1. 

- [3] A.C. Nunes, G. Shirane, Nucl. Instr. Methods 95 (1971) 445. 

- [4] R. Scherm, G. Dolling, R. Ritter, E. Schedler, W. Teuchert, V. Wagner, Nucl. Instr. Methods 143 (1977) 77. 

- [5] W. Bührer, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 338 (1994) 44. 

- [6] L. Pintschovius, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 338 (1994) 136. 

- [7] J. Kulda, J. Saroun, P. Courtois, M. Enderle, M. Thomas, P. Flores, Appl. Phys. A 74 (2002) S246. 

- [8] A. Hiess, M. Jiménez-Ruiz, P. Courtois, R. Currat, J. Kulda, F.J. Bermejo, Physica B 385–386 (2006) 1077. 

- [9] I.N. Goncharenko, I. Mirabeau, P. Molina, P. Böni, Physica B 234–236 (1997) 1047. 

- [10] K. Lefmann, U. Filges, F. Treue, J.J.K. Kirkensgård, B. Plesner, K.S. Hansen, K.H. Klenø, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 634 (2011) S1. 

- [11] M. Janoschek, P. Böni, M. Braden, Nucl. Instr. Methods A. 613 (2010) 119. 

- [12] R.M. Ibberson, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 600 (2009) 47. 

- [13] S. Mühlbauer, P.G. Niklowitz, M. Stadlbauer, R. Georgii, P. Link, J. Stahn, P. Böni, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 586 (2008) 77. 

- [14] P. Böni, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 586 (1) (2008) 1. 

- [15] C. Schanzer, P. Böni, U. Filges, T. Hils, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 529 (2004) 63. [16] S. Mühlbauer, M. Stadlbauer, P. Böni, C. Schanzer, J. Stahn, U. Filges, Phyica B 385–386 (2006) 1247. 

- [17] A.C. Komarek, P. Böni, M. Braden, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 647 (2011) 63. 

- [18] A. Schneidewind, P. Link, D. Etzdorf, R. Schedler, M. Rotter, M. Loewenhaupt, Physica B 385–386 (2006) 1089. 

- [19] A. Schneidewind, P. Link, D. Etzdorf, O. Stockert, M. Loewenhaupt, Neutron News 18 (2007) 9. 

- [20] P. Link, G. Eckold, J. Neuhaus, Physica B 276–278 (2000) 122. 

- [21] S.A. Danilkin, M. Yethiraj, T. Saerbeck, F. Klose, C. Ulrich, J. Fujioka, S. Miyasaka, Y. Tokura, B. Keimer, Phys. J. Conf. Ser. 340 (2012) 012003. 

- [22] M. Böhm, S. Roux, A. Hiess, J. Kulda, J. Magn. Magn. Mater. 310 (2007) e965. 

- [23] M. Böhm, A. Hiess, J. Kulda, S. Roux, J. Saroun, Meas. Sci. Technol. 19 (2008) 034024. 

- [24] M. Skoulatos, K. Habicht, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 647 (2011) 100. 

- [25] M.D. Le, D.L. Quintero-Castro, R. Toft-Petersen, F. Groitl, M. Skoulatos, K. C. Rule, K. Habicht, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 729 (2013) 220. 

- [26] See, e.g., K. Nielsen, K. Lefmann, Physica B 283 (2000) 426 〈http://www. mcstas.org/documentation/publications〉. 

- [27] J. Saroun, J. Kulda 〈http://neutron.ujf.cas.cz/restrax〉. 

- [28] Wolfram Research, Inc., Mathematica, Version 5.2, Champaign, IL, 2005. 

- [29] E. Farhi, C. Monzat, R. Arnerin, T. van Vuure, C. Castan-Guerrero, C. Hennane, P. A. Harraud, G. Campioni, S. Fuard, J. Ollivier, P. Willendrup, J. Neutron Res. 17 (2013) 63. 

- [30] T. Keller, T. Krist, A. Danzig, U. Keiderling, F. Mezei, A. Wiedenmann, Nucl. Instr. Methods Phys. A 451 (2000) 474. 

- [31] R. Gilles, A. Ostermann, W. Petry, J. Appl. Crystallogr. 40 (2007) s428. 

- [32] W. Schmidt, et al., in preparation. 

- [33] A. Wildes, Neutron News 17 (2006) 17. 

- [34] N. Mufti, K. Kaneko, A. Hoser, M. Gutmann, C. Geibel, C. Krellner, O. Stockert, submitted for publication. 

- [35] W. Schmidt, M. Ohl, Physica B 385–386 (2006) 1073. 

- [36] M. Böhm, A. Filhol, Y. Raoul, J. Kulda, W. Schmidt, K. Schmalzl, E. Farhi, Nucl. Instr. Methods A 697 (2013) 40. 

